1. Introduction to Interface

Interfaces can have only unimplemented functions. Also, they are neither compiled nor deployed. They are also called pure abstract contracts

Cannot implement any of their functions. All interface functions are implicitly virtual
Are defined with the keyword interface
Cannot inherit other contracts or interfaces (after solidity 6.0.0 interfaces can inherit from interfaces) but other contracts can inherit from interfaces
Function state mutability can be pure , view , payable or default(blank)
Fallback functions cannot be defined in an Interface
Interface functions are implicitly "virtual"
Cannot define a constructor
Functions can be defined external only
Cannot have state variables but local variables definition is allowed


2. Introduction to Abstract contracts

Like any OOPS language, Solidity provides abstract contracts. Abstract contracts are similar to abstract classes in OOPS languages such as Java and Typescript. There is no abstract term in Solidity for establishing an abstract contract. However, if a contract includes unimplemented functions, it becomes abstract.

Instance of an abstract cannot be created
Derived contract will implement the abstract function and use them as and when required
Contracts that have at least one function without its implementation is abstract
Also in the case when we don’t intend to create a contract directly we can consider the contract to be abstract
Abstract contracts are used as base contracts so that the child contract can inherit and utilize its functions
Any derived contract inherited from it should provide an implementation for the incomplete functions, and if the derived contract is also not implementing the incomplete functions then that derived contract will also be marked as abstract.
The abstract contract is an abstract (incomplete / hypothetical) design of a contract. The implementation of contract provides the implementation of the abstract function in it. Once the abstract contract is created, you need to extend it by using is keyword.

